
--------------------------------
Site Location:

The Pipe Jam website is:
http://verigames-dev.cs.washington.edu/

The content is found in directory
/www/htdocs/
on verigames-dev.cs.washington.edu

For now, there are global permissions to read, write and execute this directory.

--------------------------------

Site Structure:

The directory contains the following top-level files:

index.php:  This is the home page and currently provides the user with a way to upload their files.  

results.html: This site is where the user will be redirected after completing a game.  Here they 
can see the marked up code they uploaded with the results from the game. 

removeAll.php: A script to remove all the contents of the upload folder. See Misc. below.

webpage.html: This is the site that contains the actual PipeJam game. It loads the flash .swf as 
well as manages the game settings and resulting xml files.  



There are also nine main folders in the root directory:

flash_files:  Stores all the flash related content for the site, including the webgame.swf file 
which is the game flash file. 

scripts: Holds all the main Javascript and PHP scripts used by the site. 

samples:  Holds any sample .xml files that allow a user to play a game without uploading their
own content. 

styles: Holds all the .css stylesheets for the site.  The name of the css stylesheet should correspond
directly with the page they define the style for. 

uploads:  This folder stores any files uploaded by a user of the site.  The folder will contain 
sub-folder with unique guid's.  In each folder all of the file the user uploaded and any of the
output produced by the parsers and the world.xml will be located. Any error text will also be
located in this folder. 

JQueryUI: This is a folder that stores the JQuery framework.  JQuery is a downloadable Javascript
framework that can be downloaded from www.jquery.com

java: Stores all the java code required for the site.  

resources: Stores all the media files for the site design. (background images, button images,
logos, etc.)

uploadify: This is a JavaScript plugin that allows for Ajax file uploads.  It is required for the 
'pretty' interface use on the PipeJam homepage. The folder contains several JavaScript files as well
as the .swf file used for the "Select Files" button on the homepage.  I have modified a few files 
in this folder to suit our needs but the majority remains unchanged. 
--------------------------------

Site File

Below are some important files not mentioned above.  The majority of the functionality is contained
in the php files and JavaScript files in the scripts folder.  There are four main files that do the
vast majority of the heavy lifting:

pipejam.php: This file is responsible for the initial verification and upload process.  It accepts
Ajax requests from index.js with the user selected upload files.  It will then move them to their 
unique directory, unzip them, compile them and then call the script that generates the xml that will
be fed into the game.  This is the first place to look if there appears to be problems with the initial
upload process on the homepage.  

index.js: This is the corresponding JavaScript file for the homepage.  It sends the Ajax requests to
pipejam.php with the files the user selected to upload.  It also controls the behavior of the uploadify
object, which is responsible for the file uploads.  It also contains the bindings for the buttons on the
homepage as well as handling the behavior of the Ajax responses.  It also calls the modal window that 
displays the status of the uploads.  The modal window is not actually defined in this file but is instead
defined in jQuery.modal.js.  

results.js:  This is the JavaScript file responsible for displaying the files on the results page.  It 
sends an Ajax request to annotate.php as well as utilities.php (to print the contents of a file).  It 
also uses CodeMirror to display the code highlighting and line numbering in the code results window.  It
also connects the button behavior on the results page. (Download button and file selection buttons). 

annotate.php: This file is responsible for parsing the data received from the game and calling the script
to annotate the actual .java files.  It will create the updatedXML.xml file after the game is created by
calling JAIFParser located in the verigames.jar file.  It will also retrieve the annotated .java files
and print them to the results page. 

utilities.php: This is a file that contains many smaller php functions that don't fit nicely into any of
the others.  There are currently functions to obtain a new guid that will be used for a new users folder,
a function to print the contents of a specified file, and function to dynamically produce an error page when
passed a text file.

There are many other smaller files that I don't list here. However, these are the most important and if
there is a problem. It is likely that one of these are responsible. 


---------------------------------

Updating:

To update the main webgame.swf all that is needed is to replace the file located in flash_files in
the root directory. As long as the interface with webgame.html hasn't changed then no further changes
are required. However, if webgame.html, the page that references webgame.swf, needs to be modified
then please let me know and I'll make the necessary changes. 

The other most common file that will likely need to be updated on a regular basis is verigames.jar.  
This file is located in the java file in the root directory.  Currently, only Werner Dietl has permissions
to change this file. 


--------------------------------

Misc.

removeAll.php:
There is a script file entitle removeAll.php in the root directory of the site.  If you browse to this 
page in a browser it will remove all the folder in the uploads folder.  This is used as a quick way to 
clean out the uploads folder during testing.  This will remove ALL folders in the uploads directory. Make
sure that if you use this script that you really want to clear the contents.  This will obviously be 
removed before the site goes live, but it is nice to have in the meantime.


--------------------------------

Website Setup Instructions For Linux:


Step 1: Download Dependencies:

Required Dependencies:

- GraphViz must be installed
- JDK 7
- Scala
- Flash
- GraphViz

Ubuntu instructions for installing dependencies:

Install the "Ubuntu Restricted Extras" package, which includes Flash, Java,
and other fun stuff.  (You can obtain in via the "Ubuntu Software Center".)

To install the remaining dependencies, enter the following into a terminal window:

sudo apt-get install php5 apache2 libapache2-mod-php5 graphviz
sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 restart


Step 2:

Download a recent copy of the website.  This can be accomplished by selecting a backup from the following site:

	http://verigames-dev.cs.washington.edu/demo/publish.php

Click any of the listed backups to download a .zip file with the entire contents of the site. Once downloaded extract 
the contents to /var/www (Ubuntu). 

Step 3:

Download the appropriate JDK 7 binaries for your computer framework.

Install Scala.
The easiest way is:
  sudo apt-get install scala
Alternately, download Scala binaries from http://www.scala-lang.org/downloads

Once downloaded, both Java and Scala binaries need to be placed in the parent directory of the website.  In Ubuntu
the JDK 7 framework and the Scala framework should be placed in the /var folder or in the parent folder
of where you placed the web files.  

Edit website/scripts/globals.php to adjust the path for JDK 7.
Edit the shell scripts in website/scripts/typecheckers/ to update the Scala path.


Permissions:

The uploads folder needs full write permissions, as does the scripts folder. The scripts folder will eventually
need only read and execute but that will require I change a few things.  All the other folders should have read
and execute. 


Step 4:

You should now be able to use the site.  Open a browser and enter localhost into the address bar and press Enter. 
You should now see the PipeJam homepage. 


Please let me know if any of this is unclear or didn't work for you so I can update as appropriate. 
bdwalker@cs.washington.edu


  
